I'm here with Catherine Martin she's the
one that makes the Great Gatsby look
beautiful hi Catherine
hello well I'm not the only one unknown
um Carey Mulligan Elizabeth debicki Joel
Toby and certainly our dear Great Gatsby
Leo help and so does the director so a
lot of people help this seems to be a
dream gig for you because I went on to
Catherine Martin comm saw your
wallpapers or your products and stuff
like that it seems to be the same sort
of style and I feel like you could maybe
put those products onto your website
like it's amazing did you find this to
be the best gig ever
well um every gig that you go onto ends
up being the best gig ever because you
fall in love with it but at first you're
always really trepidatious that you're
not gonna do a good job yeah so um I
think eventually it becomes the best job
ever but at first you just think Oh am i
up to it yeah now designing outfits and
things for the movie where do you
actually start where this and and how do
you communicate that with bands do you
do it by just talking or do you do does
he give you sketches how does he
communicate what he wants from you so
you know it's pretty obvious from all of
Baz's films that as a director he's a
visual aesthetics the picture plane
pretty seriously as a storytelling
device so when he comes with his first
ideas and he'll always have a view on
how visually he wants to tell the story
and it takes many forms it could be like
a little sketch he's done himself it
could be tear sheets out of a magazine
it could be a sort of a philosophical
manifesto about how he wants to approach
it but fundamentally he's a very
structured director so it always starts
with research yeah and the first place
to go is always the source material and
to break down the source material to
examine any references you can find that
describe the world the clothes the
people and that becomes the building
blocks for how you start to tell the
story visually and from that there will
be a slew of research done on who the
author is the context of the world the
period in which the book is setting
whether it's actually reading you know
academic treaties novels looking at
pictures in libraries going to libraries
borrowing books going online actually
physically scouting locations that
existed in the period or possibly were
references for Fitzgerald so it's a
whole process over a prolonged period of
time so that's a great luxury because
you actually have time to absorb all of
this material and then actually you know
put it into practice yeah and then fail
a little bit along the way you know we
had a we had about an 18-month period
where we were experimenting with what
shade of pink for the pink suit you know
and and it was great because I had
originally thought of Leo's character or
the Great Gatsby as a double breasted
man yeah but the language became
inverted joel edgerton became mr.
double-breasted and Gatsby became the
single breasted guy and so their
discoveries that you make while working
with actors and being allowed into the
work shopping process which is a great
luxury that bars lets me into the
amazing thing about you embeds when you
do a project together is you don't stick
to one period it's like you do a mash-up
you make it modern as well is that hard
um I think it's really about to be clear
everything that is in this version of
the Great Gatsby has a historical
starting point certainly in that second
decade of the 2000 was that we could use
any references from 1922 which is the
year that the book is set the summer of
22 it was published in 25 and it
foreshadows the crash of 29
so we use that that decade as a
reference point but then choices are
made to make what's happening in the
story clearer to a contemporary audience
so for instance all the cars in our
movie are in the latter part of the 2011
pimped up - well the only car that is
pimped up they don't know more then it
could have been in that period because a
Duesenberg you would buy the Duesenberg
and then you would have the chassis
dressed and fitted out by a coach makeup
yeah who would actually receive the
chassis and then put the body on the car
and stuff so they're all cars that are
not anachronistic apart from the fact
that we they're all from the latter 20s
rather than the early 20s now that
decision was made because if you look at
cars say 1919 to 1922 they all look like
the cars that a keystone cop would have
and our association is that they're
comical or there isn't a kind of
inherent murder we don't associate it
with modernity or sleekness or fast cars
or kind of you know a sexy car that you
might want to have their sort of
jalopies yeah and so those decisions
were made so that when you're looking at
all the cars that our main characters
have that you actually think yes I'd
like to have that car that is a
desirable object I wouldn't like to
drive like they do in there or would you
get in the car with one of those people
in that movie oh my god
no I never got in a car with any of them
I did drive with our vehicle coordinator
once in the duesey and that was a lot of
fun now most people would not want to
work with their partner you've been
doing it with buzz forever what's it
like do you guys have creative arguments
they'll fight all the time
yes
and usually in bathrooms is that the
only place we can get some privacy but I
think bass paid me a very nice
compliment last night where we were
having it was a spirited argument it
wasn't at all nasty and it was over
dinner and I needed to go home because I
was jet-lagged and I said I'll
sweetheart I'm gonna go now and he said
you know what I still enjoy arguing with
you even after 25 years and I think you
know argument is a very important and
positive part I think of human relations
yeah and it's a way of getting your
opinion across and it's a spirited
debate rather than you know not to say
that we don't have also you know nasty
arguments sometimes but a lot of the
time it's just a spirited debate that's
allowing us to find the right solution
to any given problem and in a bathroom
its Dolby surround sound so even better
totes
yeah Catherine you're brilliant I love
everything you do you deserve your
Oscars I hope you get another one for
this one oh thank you that's very sweet
London I love you and I love your
sweater love your glasses whatever I
love your sweater
sube um Dangerfield